```toc
```

## TODO 
- Look up what *Standard Transaction* is, defined in CCC R2 Section 6.3.4
- ZZ1 - ZZ2 - Z1 certificates in Stelantis research how they work 



## Acronyms 
**GMA** - Mobile app
SpaaK Smartphone as a Key  

## Begining 

- Only one device at a time acting as the owner device. 
- CCC is based on a public key infrastructure. **The vehicle as well as the smart device carry identity certificates.**
- CCC divides the Owner Pairing Flow into 4 technical phases.
	-   Phase 0: Preparation
	-   Phase 1: Initiate pairing procedure on vehicle and device
	-   Phase 2: First session with NFC reader
	-   Phase 3: Second session with NFC reader
	-   Phase 4: Finalization of pairing procedure

- In order to pair a Smartphone with the respective vehicle, the owner Smartphone needs to retrieve the matching password (i.e. CCC pairing password) to the stored password verifiers of the vehicle. (our helpcenter password)

## Pairing password request via GMA, retrieved within GMA
SPAAK system supports two methods for the owner pairing

1.  Pairing password request via GMA, retrieved within GMA
	- Steps: 
		1.  User logs into GMA    
		2.  User chooses to add a digital key for the owned vehicle
		3.  GMA request pairing password from GSDP
		4.  GSDP validates User, Ownership and Service subscription
		5.  Deep link (i.e. URL) for the pairing password sent to GMA from GSDP
		6.  Deep link (i.e. URL) for the pairing password stored on User Device
		7.  GMA pops up the the Start Pairing HMI screen
		8.  User click on the ‘Start Pairing’ button
		9.  User is directed to smartphone native App
	- Results: Device stored SPAKE2+ Pairing password 


2. Pairing Password request via Customer Portal / Hotline, retrieved in email 
	- Steps: 
		1.  User request pairing password via customer portal / hotline
		2.  User provide owner verification (e.g. PIN number)
		3.  Pairing password requested from Backend
		4.  Backend validates User, Ownership and Service subscription
		5.  Deep link (i.e. URL) for the pairing password sent to User Device (via email)
		    from backend
		6.  User click on the deep link (i.e. URL)
	- Result: Device stored Spake2+ Pairing 

#### Summary

This use case describes the process for retrieving an owner pairing password for a vehicle via the Stellantis GMA app on a smartphone. The user must have a valid Uconnect account, proven ownership of the vehicle, and a subscription to the digital key service. After initiating owner pairing, the GMA app requests the pairing password from GSDP, which validates the user, ownership, and service subscription. A deep link for the pairing password is sent to the GMA app, which stores it on the user's device. The user then clicks the "Start Pairing" button, which directs them to their smartphone's native app to complete the pairing process. The device stores the SPAKE2+ pairing password. Error handling and pairing password expiration dates should be considered, and the vehicle must be connected to the backend to handle error scenarios.

### 5.6.5.1 Initiate Pairing Procedure (Mobile App)

- Is similar to our pairing with Help Center 

### 5.6.5.1.2 Pairing password request via Customer Portal / Hotline, retrieved in email

- The owner pairing password retrieval via Customer Portal / Hotline, by receiving an email with deep URL for pairing password

1.  User request pairing password via customer portal / hotline
2.  User provide owner verification (e.g. PIN number)
3.  Pairing password requested from Backend
4.  Backend validates User, Ownership and Service subscription
5.  Deep link (i.e. URL) for the pairing password sent to User Device (via email)
    from backend
6.  User click on the deep link (i.e. URL)

outcome: Device stored SPAKE2+ pairing password

Not sure what do to for this one? Do we need to implement a user auth or just use the existing implementation with help center where we would need to define the messages which are called. (need to map out how Helpcenter works)

### Initiate Pairing Procedure

[[Phases by pairing]]


## BLE Activation & First Approach 

[[5.6.5.3.4 BLE Activation & First Approach]]